Reynard
American
80 Wythe Avenue,
718-460-8004
AMONG summer vegetables, okra is not a heartthrob. If green zebra   and white nectarines are the
romantic leads, the part of okra is a cameo played by Willem Dafoe. For those wise to its
unconventional charms, though, even an okra cameo can be memorable. That was the case the other
night at  , in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. I was eating an excellent piece of <dish>wahoo</dish>, which
the kitchen treated as something like a cross between swordfish and albacore, grilling it to medium
rare and slicing it into generous slabs. Beside it was the kind of   you could eat all summer long:
cool faro and bulgur, green herbs, agreeably sugary tomatoes and long green spears that I mistook at
first for green beans. In fact, they were young okra pods halved lengthwise and quickly tossed on a
searing grill. Okra holds its own under forceful heat, while a meek flame will melt it into a swamp
of goo. This heat, and this okra, had something extra: a fleck of char and a lick of smoke from a
wood fire. This treatment may not turn okra into a box-office draw, but it was still pretty cool, in
a Dafoe kind of way. It also showed off what’s best about Reynard, where nearly everything that
comes out of the kitchen is chosen by hand and cooked with firewood. Chosen by hand means that the
chef, Sean Rembold, has a farmer who will pick baby okra pods when they’re the size of an AAA
battery. He has a fishmonger who can deliver bluefish yanked from the sea so recently, it can be
served ceviche-style with smoked crème fraîche. Mr. Rembold may have a forager, or he may just hang
out in Williamsburg’s few remaining vacant lots, because one night he was serving milkweed leaves,
as thick and soft as pappardelle. Reynard, which opened not long ago on the ground floor of the new
in Williamsburg, can get a little   at times. Andrew Tarlow, who built the restaurant and is a
partner in the hotel, carries a briefcase of leather tanned from the hide of a cow that once passed
with everyone from our sheep farmers to our coffee roasters,” he told a reporter recently. One
night, a server at Reynard said that the   had already been in. (“They sat at that table over
there,” she said.) The Masts, two chocolate makers with Smith Brothers beards, may be more famous
locally than the cast of “Girls.” I wondered whether any customers, on being informed that the
elegantly composed layer cake is made with Mast Brothers chocolate, had ever asked, “Who?” “No.” You
might be tempted to roll your eyes at how perfectly Reynard would fit into a novel about the
Brooklyn dining scene until you remember that Mr. Tarlow helped write the book. In 1998, with a
partner he had met waiting tables at the Odeon and a chef who had trained at Savoy, he took over a
failed diner down the street from Peter Luger and renamed it  . Next came  , where Mr. Rembold was
the sous-chef and later, the chef. The restaurants helped a style of cooking that had started to
seem not quite flashy enough for Manhattan — scruffy, devoutly local, indebted as much to Berkeley,
Calif., as to France and Italy — establish itself as the common language of chefs from Greenpoint to
Ditmas Park. Happily for him and for us, Mr. Rembold has something most of those chefs don’t.
Reynard’s kitchen was built so that almost everything can be cooked with fire. Sit in the rear
dining room, with its tiled floor and soaring raftered ceilings that make it look like the set of a
play about Balthazar being staged in an abandoned factory, and you can see the rigs at work. If you
keep a fishbowl-size grill on your fire escape, you may writhe in envy as you watch one cook working
at tongs’ length from leaping flames on a grill as big as a coffee table and another stashing
skillets at eye level inside a wood-burning oven. Reynard’s hoods must be powered by jet engines
because you don’t smell smoke at your table until you get close to your food. Then you can’t miss
it. You can savor the smoke in the round oven-roasted clams, oysters and mussels served, with their
juices, over thin toast slices. You can appreciate the way it turns grilled leaves of romaine
lettuce with bread crumbs into a <dish>Caesar salad</dish> that has a beguiling edge of char. It
burrows all the way through a <dish>roasted duck breast</dish>, making every scrap of meat worth
whittling away from the bones. Smoke even has its way with the dessert course. If you are one of
those jaded creatures who has grown weary of tarte Tatin, then the grilled and caramelized peaches
in the version here may revive you. One day the skill with which the kitchen handles fire may carry
over to the rest of its work more reliably. I hope so, because several dishes missed their mark by
mere inches. A <dish>melon salad</dish> came close to being a sweet ode to summer, but it turned
sour thanks to sharp and briny pickled jalapeños. <dish>Croutons</dish> saturated by brown butter
made an otherwise lovely main course of rock shrimp too rich to finish. And lobster with vanilla
sauce lacked the confidence that was needed to resurrect this nouvelle cuisine landmark. Some of
this can be attributed to the strain of changing the menu nearly every day. So can the servers’
occasional fogginess about just what, exactly, is on the plates. Their jobs might be easier if they
didn’t have to memorize a catalog of unlisted specials, a pointless affectation from a place that
prints the date at the top of the menu. (By day, when light filters through enormous windows,
Reynard offers breakfast and lunch, with far fewer choices.) Diner and Marlow & Sons have their off
nights, too, but somehow their small scale and obvious eccentricity conspire so that it hardly
matters. Reynard feels more serious and self-conscious, as if trying to prove that Williamsburg has
come of age. And yet Diner, circa 1998, could not have built a cellar of offbeat and affordable
French wines as deep as the one Lee Campbell has built at Reynard, or found enough customers to
drink them. Growing older does have compensations.
